then Samuel died and the Israelites
gathered together and lament it for him
and buried him at his home in Ramah and
David arose and went down to the
wilderness of Paran now there was a man
in man whose business was in Carmel
and the man was very rich he had three
thousand sheep and a thousand goats and
he was sharing his sheep in Carmel the
name of the man was navel and the name
of his wife Abigail and she was a woman
of good understanding and beautiful
appearance but the man was harsh and
evil in his doings he was of the house
of Caleb
when David heard in the wilderness that
navel was sharing his sheep David sent
ten young men and David said to the
young men go up to Carmel go to nae bell
and greet him in my name and thus you
shall say to him who lives in prosperity
peace be to you
peace to your house and peace to all you
have now I have heard that you have
Shearer's your shepherds were with us
and we did not hurt them nor was there
anything missing from them
all the while they were in Carmel ask
your young men and they will tell you
therefore let my young men find favor in
your eyes for we come on a feast day
please give whatever comes to your hand
to your servants and to your son David
so when David's young men came they
spoke to Nabal according to all these
words in the name of David and waited
been able answer David's servants who is
David and who is the son of Jesse there
are many servants nowadays who break
away each one from his master shall I
then take my bread and my water and my
meat that I have killed for my Shearer's
and give it to men when I do not know
where they are from so David's young men
turned on their heels and went back and
they came and told him all these words
then David said to his men every man
gird on his sword so every man girded on
his sword and David also girded on his
sword and about 400 men went with David
and two hundred stayed with the supplies
now one of the young men told Abigail
navels wife look David sent messengers
from the wilderness to greet our master
and he reviled them but the men were
very good to us and we were not hurt nor
did we miss anything as long as we
accompanied them when we were in the
fields they were a wall to us both by
night and day all the time we were with
them keeping the Sheep now therefore
know and consider what you will do for
harm is determined against our master
and against all his household for he is
such a scum
that one cannot speak to him that
Abigail made haste and took 200 loaves
of bread two skins of wine five sheep
already dressed five seeds of roasted
grain and at one hundred clusters of
raisins and two hundred cakes of figs
and loaded them on donkeys and she said
to her servants go on before me see I am
coming after you but she did not tell
her husband Abel
so it was as she wrote on the donkey but
she went down under cover of the hill
and they were David and his men coming
down toward her and she met them now
David had said surely in vain I have
protected all that this fellow has in
the wilderness so that nothing was
missed of all that belongs to him
and he has repaid me evil for good
may God do so and more also to the
enemies of David if I leave one male of
all who belong to him by morning light
when abigail saw David she dismounted
quickly from the donkey fell on her face
before David and bowed down to the
ground so she fell at his feet and said
on me my lord on me let this iniquity be
and please let your maidservant speak in
your ears and hear the words of your
maidservant please
let not my lord regard this scoundrel
neighbor for as his name is so is he
Nabal is his name and folly is with him
but I your maidservant did not see the
young men of my Lord whom you sent now
therefore my lord as the Lord lives and
as your soul lives since the Lord has
held you back from coming to bloodshed
and from avenging yourself with your own
hand now then let your enemies and those
who seek harm for my lord be is Nabal
and now this present which your
maidservant has brought to my Lord let
it be given to the young men who follow
my lord please forgive the trespass of
your maidservant for the Lord will
certainly make for my Lord an enduring
house because my Lord fights the battles
of the Lord and evil is not found and
you throughout your days yet a man has
risen to pursue you and seek your life
but the life of my Lord shall be bound
in the bundle of the living with the
Lord your God and the lives of your
enemies he shall sling out as from the
pocket of a sling and it shall come to
pass when the Lord has done from my lord
according to all the good that he has
spoken concerning you and has appointed
you ruler over Israel that this will be
no grief to you nor offense of heart to
my lord
either that you have shed blood without
cause or that my Lord has avenged
himself but when the Lord has dealt well
with my lord
then remember your maidservant blessed
is the Lord God of Israel who sent you
this day to meet me and blessed is your
advice and blessed are you because you
have kept me this day from coming to
bloodshed and from avenging myself with
my own hand for indeed as the Lord God
of Israel lives
who has kept me back from hurting you
unless you had hurried and come to meet
me
surely by morning light no males would
have been left to neighbor so David
received from her hand what she had
brought him and said to her go up in
peace to your house see I have heeded
your voice and respected your person now
abigail went to navel and there he was
holding a feast in his house like the
feast of a king and Abel's heart was
merry within him for he was very drunk
therefore she told him nothing little or
much until morning light so it was in
the morning when the wine had gone from
navel and his wife had told him these
things that his heart died within him
and he became like a stone and it
happened after about ten days that the
Lord struck Mable and he died so when
David heard that navel was dead he said
blessed be the Lord who has pleaded the
cause of my reproach from the hand of
neighbor and has kept his servant from
evil for the Lord has returned the
wickedness of neighbor on his own head
and David sent and proposed to Abigail
to take her as his wife when the
servants of David had come to Abigail at
Carmel they spoke to her David sent us
to you to ask you to become his wife
then she arose bowed her face to the
earth here is your maidservant a servant
to wash the feet of the servants of my
lord
so abigail rose in haste and rode on a
donkey attended by five of her maidens
and she followed the messengers of David
and became his wife David also took a
hinoa of Jezreel and so both of them
were his wives but Saul had given
Michael his daughter David's wife to
palter the son of leche who was from
Galan
[Music]